Add Retention Quotas documentation page (#36124)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_quotas.md

---
title: Control Costs with Retention Quotas
description: Learn how to cap the number of retained RUM sessions per day with retention quotas.
further_reading:
  - link: '/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/'
    tag: Documentation
    text: RUM without Limits
  - link: '/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters'
    tag: Documentation
    text: Retain Data with Retention Filters
  - link: '/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/metrics'
    tag: Documentation
    text: Analyze Performance with Metrics
  - link: '/real_user_monitoring/guide/retention_filter_best_practices/'
    tag: Guide
    text: Retention Filter Best Practices
---

> {{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/rum-managed-archive/" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!">}}

Reviewer: reminder the URL needs to be updated
```suggestion
{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/rum-managed-archive/" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview">}}
```

Author: Noted — we will update the URL once the Retention Quotas preview form is published (planned for April 29th).

Retention Quotas are in Preview.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> Retention quotas let you **cap** the number of sessions retained per day across your retention filters.

Reviewer: bolding words should be reserved for UI elements

```suggestion
Retention quotas let you cap the number of sessions retained per day across your retention filters.
```

> This gives you tighter **cost control** and prevents **unexpected billing** spikes caused by traffic surges or misconfigured filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This gives you tighter cost control and prevents unexpected billing spikes caused by traffic surges or misconfigured filters.
```

## How quotas work

You define a daily quota as a maximum number of retained sessions. After the quota is reached, you can choose one of two behaviors:

> - **Stop retention**: No additional sessions are retained for the rest of the day. All incoming sessions are dropped until the quota resets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stop retention**: Datadog retains no additional sessions for the rest of the day and drops all incoming sessions until the quota resets.
```

> - **Slow down retention**: Retention continues but at a slower rate. Only 10% of the sessions that should be normally retained are effectively retained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Slow down retention**: Retention continues but at a slower rate. Datadog retains only 10% of sessions that would normally be retained.
```

2. Select your application.
3. Go to **Product Settings > Retention Filters**.
4. Set a daily quota threshold, a reset time, and a behavior when the quota is reached.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention-quotas-configuration.png" alt="The retention quota configuration panel showing the daily quota threshold, reset time, and behavior options." style="width:80%" >}}

<div class="alert alert-info">Quotas do not apply to sessions retained by <a href="/real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention_filters/#permanent-retention-filters">Permanent Retention Filters</a>.</div>

Configuration is done at the application level, which means you can apply different retention strategies per application. Any configuration change (quota limit, retention behavior, reset time) is instantly applied.

## Monitoring quota usage

The `rum.measure.session.quota_limited` metric tracks the volume of sessions that were blocked after the quota was reached.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/rum_without_limits/retention-quotas-blocked-metric.png" alt="The retention quota metric showing the volume of sessions blocked after the quota was reached." style="width:100%" >}}

## API

> Retention quotas can be managed through [APIs][1] or Datadog's dedicated [Terraform modules][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manage retention quotas through [APIs][1] or Datadog's dedicated [Terraform modules][2].
```

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: /api/latest/rum-retention-filters/

Reviewer: will there be a specific API for retention quotas?

Author: This is still TBD. API and Terraform support will not be available at first for quotas configuration, so the API section has been removed from this PR.
